---
layout: page
title: My research
subtitle: Particle physics with the ATLAS detector
---
I am an Experimental particle physics, which means I participate in experiments to measure and understand the wonderful world of elementary particles and their interactions.

I am part of the ATLAS Collaboration which brings together around five thousand physicists, engineers, technicians, and support staff from around the world to manage and operate the ATLAS detector, a massive particle detector built underground at CERN to measure the products of proton-proton collisions being produced at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC). The main mission of the LHC, to push High Energy Physics (HEP) to new heights, has had enormous success, spearheaded by the discovery of the Higgs boson in 2012 by the ATLAS and CMS Collaborations. Ten years after the Higgs discovery the experimental collaborations at the LHC have amassed a large wealth of data and are starting a new era of data collection, known as run 3, at a higher than ever before energies, up to 13.6 TeV at the center-of-mass energy. The large amount of data available and the even larger amount of data being recorded in run 3 open the door to a variety of analyses that were previously not possible due to the lack of data, and allow existing efforts to reach higher sensitivity

Although I started my career measuring known physics processes to high precision my current research is focused on searching for new physics beyond the Standard Model (SM), the basic framework that captures our current knowledge of particle physics. In particular, my team and I focus on searches with multiple third-generation quarks in the final state (top quarks and b-quarks). The large mass of these heavy quarks, especially in the case of the top quark, makes them particularly interesting to understand Higgs boson properties and the mechanism of electroweak symmetry breaking

We also participate in the upgrade program of the ATLAS detector for the next era of LHC data taking, the High-Luminosity LHC (HL-LHC), to start in 2027. This improvement for the LHC will allow us to achieve much larger instantaneous luminosities than with the baseline LHC program, growing the data available to the experiments by one order of magnitude. The ATLAS detector will need to undergo several modifications in order to maintain or improve its capabilities in the challenging HL-LHC conditions.
